#summary Definate Configuration Language

= Table of Contents =
<wiki:toc max_depth="3" />

= Global section =
This section contains directives global in scope.

 * pre_filters, post_filters: Optional list of global filters to run before (pre_filters) or after (post_filters) the definition file generation. Each filter may define a set of filter specific arguments in the 'args' attribute.
  * 'name': Name of the filter used to lookup the filter class to use. Valid values: There are currently no implementations.
 * per_file_pre_filters, per_file_post_filters: Optional list of file filters run before (pre_filters) or after (post_filters) the generation of each file. The pre_filters here are run BEFORE the individual filters specified in the files section and the post_filters are run AFTER the individual filters specified in the files section. For a list of possible filters and arguments, see the "Files section".
 * per_definition_pre_filters, per_definition_post_filters: Optional list of definition filters run before (pre_filters) or after (post_filters) the generation of each definition. The pre_filters here are run BEFORE the individual filters specified in the definitions section and the post_filters are run AFTER the individual filters specified in the definitions section. For a list of possible filters and arguments, see the "Definitions section".

= Files section =
This section contains a list of settings and configurations for each file that gets generated.

 * path: Path to the definitions file to be generated, relative to the def path defined in the global section.
 * pre_filters, post_filters: Optional list of file level filters to run before (pre_filters) or after (post_filters) the file has been generated. Each filter may define a set of filter specific arguments in the 'args' attribute.
  * 'name': Name of the filter used to lookup the filter class to use. Valid values:
   * 'PrintFilter': Does not modify input. Just prints it.
   * 'WriteFileFilter': Writes files out locally.
 * file_header: List of strings that get printed in the beginning of the file.
 * generators: List of generator blocks.

== Generators section ==
 * name: The generator defines the source of the information.Valid values:
  * 'DnsGenerator': For definitions generated based on hostnames with a simple DNS resolver. Note that the resolver might not return all addresses used for one hostname depending on the implemented DNS load balancing.
 * definitions: List of definition blocks.

=== Definitions section ===
 * name: Name of the definition that gets generated. This name is used in the definitions file and can be used in policies to reference the definition.
 * header: Optional list of header strings that will be printed before the definition.
 * pre_filters, post_filters: Optional list of definition level filters to run before (pre_filters) or after (post_filters) the definition has been generated. Each filter may define a set of filter specific arguments in the 'args' attribute.
  * 'name': Name of the filter used to lookup the filter class to use. Valid values:
   * 'SortFilter': Sort the input list and return one list containing IPv4 sorted, IPv6 sorted.
   * 'AlignFilter': Take the input list and definition name and create nicely formated output.
 * networks: Contains  a list of descriptions about how to get a complete set of networks/IPs for one definition. This section contains generator-specific configuration directives".

=== Network directives for DnsGenerator ===

==== Networks section ====
 * names: List of hostnames that should be resolved.
 * types: List of types the output should be filtered for. Valid values:
  * 'A': Filter for IPv4 addresses.
  * 'AAAA': Filter for IPv6 addresses.